# CS340
CS340 client server development

How do you write programs that are maintainable, readable, and adaptable? Especially consider your work on the CRUD Python module from Project One, which you used to connect the dashboard widgets to the database in Project Two. What were the advantages of working in this way? How else could you use this CRUD Python module in the future?
To write the CRUD python script and make it modular I had to consider what every word in CRUD did. For the C or create i needed to consider everything that was needed to create and save data onto the document. For the R or read i needed to search for data in the database and i needed to consider what happened if nothing was found. Cosidering everything the fucntion needs to do and defining it as its own function to be called and used whenever needed, made it maintainable, readable and adaptable.

How do you approach a problem as a computer scientist? Consider how you approached the database or dashboard requirements that Grazioso Salvare requested. How did your approach to this project differ from previous assignments in other courses? What techniques or strategies would you use in the future to create databases to meet other client requests?
Preperation is key for the sucess of any project. Reading the requirements, planning and designing before you begin to write code will dedtermine the quality of the final product. Preparing and working on this project i ran into a lot of problems and roadblocks. Some of the instructions were outdated thus having to troubleshoot before i can beging doing the work. If i had been better prepared with better time management i would of had more success. This is something i strategized with previous courses but struggled to implement on this one. To create databases in the future I will keep modularity at the forefront of all design so that I can quiclky implemet updates to meet the clients requiremnts and needs.

What do computer scientists do, and why does it matter? How would your work on this type of project help a company, like Grazioso Salvare, to do their work better?
Computer scientist and the technology they help companies like Graziosa Salvare streamline their process and ecponentially increase their productivity. This makes employess jobs easier and helps them achieve their mission to keep saving lives and give working animals another chance.
